2.1 Methodology
=======
Developing the prototype standard in a complex area of operations, in quite a short period of time, meant that the certain tasks had to be performed in parallel.

The first task was to review the existing literature. Prior to project initiation, Defra had completed a comprehensive discovery exercise, and the documents provided as part of that exercise were tremendously useful in understanding the processes, stakeholders, and the wider ecosystem in which waste transfer takes place.

Of particular interest were the blueprint pathways for hazardous and non-hazardous waste, which we were able to use to form our first pass at a description of the pathways from a standards viewpoint.

Along with the research literature, we were offered the option to receive a year’s worth of anonymised hazardous waste transfer data, which we took. This 3 million row dataset was very useful in terms of actually understanding how the data looks once it has been reported through various channels. The anonymisation made it a little abstract (codes instead of postcodes, for example). Nevertheless, it was really good to see an approximation of the volume and type of data that is being handled.

We also reviewed the existing documents and systems that support the transfer of waste. Forms, online reporting tools, open datasets, and other paperwork were all examined and documented, to help us understand how and where data is captured. We considered data items that are shared or duplicated across multiple collection mechanisms, and fields where the contents of the field are constrained by codelists.

While the prototype was being developed, we also held a number of workshops with professionals from across the waste transfer pathways were invited. Attendees included waste producers, waste processors, members of the Chartered Institute of Waste Management, and facilities management staff responsible for arranging waste collection. 

We also held a public session with open data enthusiasts from across the North West, as well as several internal workshops to define and refine the models.

These workshops were tremendously important for several reasons. Being able to develop the prototype standards almost in partnership with key stakeholders is very valuable in knowing that we’re on the right track with the model, and being able to check any assumptions in face to face sessions is vital. It’s also extremely important when developing a standard to properly socialise that standard. Sharing early and often is key to successful adoption of the standard by stakeholders further down the line.
