3.4.2 Linked Jobs
=
Once a waste job arrives at the waste site, the KnoWaste tracking is complete. However, waste jobs have a life beyond arrival at the destination. KnoWaste has been designed to track jobs through these scenarios:

**Aggregation or multi-drop**: Multiple jobs (JobA1, JobA2, JobA3) are aggregated into a single new job (JobA4). In this scenario, a non-hazardous job can become dangerous or hazardous due to change in quantities or concentrations of waste. Contamination may be found and illegal co-mingling could occur. To handle this scenario, in the new job, KnoWaste tracks the incoming, globally unique job numbers that were aggregated to create this job.

**Processing**: A single job (JobP1) could be processed at a waste site and separated into multiple jobs (JobP2, JobP3). Examples include a skip of municipal waste sorted into wood, rubble and other components.  To handle this scenario, in the new job, KnoWaste tracks a single globally unique job number that was the source of the job.

**No change**: In some cases, waste may go to landfill or other end points without any changes to the job. In this case, KnoWaste will not track any job numbers as there has been no change.

**Other changes**: In some scenarios, there may be a change to the EWC code, or legal ownership of the waste may change. In the new job, KnoWaste tracks the single globally unique number that was the previous job number.

|Field Name|Data Type|Required|Description|
|:-|:-|:-|:-|
|wasteJobId|string|Always|Identifier for the waste job|
|id|string|Always|Identifier for the parent or previous waste job.|
|date|date|Always|Date the waste job was added to the collection, aggregated, processed or changed, using ISO 8601:2004 (without Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) offset). For example, 2017-05-16 is 16 May 2017.|
|linkedJobType|list|Always|The linked job type that best matches the scenario - use the internal code list: Linked Job Type|
